Introduction

The system searches synonyms (and related words) in a set of texts of special structure (like Wikipedia and other wiki-resources). Results of search are presented in the form of graph. Nodes are the names of articles, links show the relations between words. The program searches synonyms automatically for the requested word, after that user rates/unrates synonyms (in the found synonym set) in interactive mode using graph or table. The synonym search parameters and list of rated synonyms are stored on user computer.

Automatic extension of user request (topic of text mining) by related terms (e.g. synonyms) is the possible application of the system.


Algorithms

The Kleinberg algorithm (based on concept of Authority and Hub pages) was adapted to search similar words in Wikipedia.

The work under development is to estimate the quality of synonym search. The developed model proposes to evaluate the found set of synonyms against the WordNet and Moby thesauri.


Requirements

Running the Synarcher on client side requires a Jave Runtime Environment (JRE) with version number of at least 1.3.0. The Synarcher was tested on Windows XP and Mandrake Linux.

The server should provide the access to Wikipedia resources via MySQL, Apache, and MediaWiki software. The currently public available Wikipedia servers (e.g. http://en.wikipedia.org) could not be used directly because the current version of Synarcher requires an intensive computations. So we have used the locally installed version of Wikipedia.

The Synarcher works with Wikipedia data in MySQL format (the format suitable for MediaWiki - the wiki engine running Wikipedia and other projects). Though we have tested Synarcher with English and Russian Wikipedia data only, we suppose that it is possible to run Synarcher (search of related terms) with other wiki resources used Mediawiki.


Current work plan

The format of Wikipedia database was changed. It is need to rewrite the low-level of Synarcher in order to access the new version of Wikipedia.
